Updated design guidelines (#155)
docker/extensions-sdk: docs/design/design-guidelines.md

---
title: Extension design guidelines
description: Docker extension design
keywords: Docker, extensions, design
---

# Design Guidelines

At Docker, we aim to build tools that integrate into a user's existing workflows rather than requiring them to adopt new ones. To that end, we strongly recommend that you follow these guidelines when building extensions. We will be reviewing and approving your Marketplace publication based on these requirements.

## Build a consistent experience with Docker Desktop.
Use the [Docker Material UI Theme](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@docker/docker-mui-theme) and the [Docker Extensions Styleguide](https://www.figma.com/file/U7pLWfEf6IQKUHLhdateBI/Docker-Design-Guidelines?node-id=1%3A28771) to ensure that your extension feels like it is part of Docker Desktop to create a seamless experience for users.

> - Ensure the extension has both a light and dark theme. Using the components and styles as per the Docker styleguide will ensure that your extension meets the [level AA accessibility standard.](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG2AA-Conformance)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure the extension has both a light and dark theme. Using the components and styles as per the Docker style guide ensures that your extension meets the [level AA accessibility standard.](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG2AA-Conformance)
```

  <img src="images/complicated_flows.png" width= 50% height=50%>
<br>

- Where there are multiple call-to-actions, ensure you use the primary (filled button style) and secondary buttons (outline button style) to convey the importance of each action. 

  <img src="images/cta.png" width= 50% height=50%>
<br>

## Onboarding New Users

When building your extension, ensure that first time users of the extension and your product can understand its value-add and adopt it easily. Ensure you include contextual help within the extension.

- Ensure that all necessary information is added to the extensions Marketplace as well as the extensions detail page. This should include:
    - Screenshots of the extension.
    - A detailed description that covers what the purpose of the extension is, who would find it useful and how it works.
    - Link to necessary resources such as documentation.
<br>
<br>
    
- If your extension has particularly complex functionality, add a demo or video to the start page. This helps onboard a first time user quickly.

  <img src="images/start_page.png" width= 25% height=25%>
<br>

> 

Reviewer 2: nit: we can remove those lines

Author: Removed
